hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions you are waiting
for your flight to Seattle and to pass
the time you call three friends in
Seattle you independently ask each one
if it is raining all three of your
friends say yes it is raining but each
friend lies with probability one over
three and tells the truth with
probability two over three
can you solve for the probability it is
actually raining in Seattle this is
adapted from an interview question that
was asked at Facebook pause the video if
you'd like to give it a try and when
you're ready keep watching to learn how
to answer this interview question
[Music]
so we can get started by drawing a
probability tree one branch will be if
it actually is raining in Seattle now if
all three friends are telling the truth
they will all say yes this happens with
a probability of 2/3 for each friend and
since they're independent we can
multiply the probabilities to get 8 over
27 the other branch will be if it's not
raining in Seattle now if all three
friends are lying then they will also
all say yes each friend lies with a
probability of 1/3 so we end up with the
probability of 1 over 27 that all three
are lying we now want to calculate the
probability of each branch but there's a
problem we need to know the probability
that it rains in Seattle this
information was intentionally omitted
from the interview question unlike a
textbook problem or all the information
is given to you the interviewer wants to
know can you do more than solve textbook
problems I'll mention that many people
thank me for covering such problems
saying mind your decisions videos have
helped them get high-paying tech and
finance jobs so what you're supposed to
do at this point is ask the interviewer
for the probability the interviewer
might tell you that it's 25% or they
might tell you to solve for the general
case that the probability of rain is
equal to P so let's solve for the
general case write the probability of
rain is equal to P so the probability
that does not rain is 1 minus P well you
now calculate the probability of each
branch by multiplying the respective
probabilities the top branch will be 8 P
all over 27 and the bottom branch will
be 1 minus P all over 27 the top branch
is equal to the probability that all
three people say yes given that it's
raining and the bottom branch is the
probability that all three people say
yes given that it's not raining to solve
for the chance that it actually is
raining we want the probability of the
top branch divided by the sum of these
two probabilities but in an interview
you might want to illustrate that you
know
something called Bayes rule so we want
the probability that it actually is
raining given that all three people say
yes so we applied the Bayes rule formula
and we end up with the following
fraction so this is the probability the
top branch divided by the sum of the two
probabilities we substitute what we've
calculated and then we need to simplify
this
notice the 27 s will cancel out and then
we simplify the denominator and we end
up with ap all over 7p plus 1 and that's
the answer I think this is a wonderful
interview question
many applicants will have the technical
skills to solve a probability problem
like this but how many will have the
courage to ask for missing information
thanks for watching and for making mind
your decisions one of the best channels
on YouTube thanks for watching and
thanks for your support
[Music]